improve svelte pages guide (#7437)
cloudflare/cloudflare-docs: content/pages/framework-guides/deploy-a-svelte-site.md

```sh
$ npm init svelte@latest my-svelte-app
```

> During `init`, SvelteKit will prompt you for customization choices. For the template option choose one of the application/project ones, the remaining answers will not affect the rest of this tutorial. Choose the options that better suit your project.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
During `init`, SvelteKit will prompt you for customization choices. For the template option, choose one of the application/project options. The remaining answers will not affect the rest of this tutorial. Choose the options that better suit your project.
```

> Next move to the directory of the project and install its dependencies:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After creating your project, go to your project directory and install its dependencies:
```

```sh
$ cd my-svelte-app
$ npm install
```

> You can now start your application with:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After you have installed your project dependencies, start your application:
```

Create a new GitHub repository by visiting [repo.new](https://repo.new). After creating a new repository, prepare and push your local application to GitHub by running the following commands in your terminal:

```sh
$ git init
$ git remote add origin https://github.com/<username>/<repo>
$ git add .
$ git commit -m "Initial commit"
$ git branch -M main
$ git push -u origin main
```

> ## SvelteKit Cloudflare Configuration

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## SvelteKit Cloudflare configuration
```

> ### SvelteKit Cloudflare Configuration

Author: ```suggestion
## SvelteKit Cloudflare Configuration
```

> In order to use SvelteKit with Cloudflare Pages you'll need to add the [Cloudflare adapter](https://kit.svelte.dev/docs/adapter-cloudflare) to your application, to do so:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To use SvelteKit with Cloudflare Pages, you need to add the [Cloudflare adapter](https://kit.svelte.dev/docs/adapter-cloudflare) to your application:
```

> In order to use SvelteKit with Cloudflare pages you'll need to add the [Cloudflare adapter](https://kit.svelte.dev/docs/adapter-cloudflare) to your application, to do so:

Author: ```suggestion
In order to use SvelteKit with Cloudflare Pages you'll need to add the [Cloudflare adapter](https://kit.svelte.dev/docs/adapter-cloudflare) to your application, to do so:
```

---
filename: svelte.config.js
---
- import adapter from '@sveltejs/adapter-auto;
+ import adapter from '@sveltejs/adapter-cloudflare';

/** @type {import('@sveltejs/kit').Config} */
const config = {
  kit: {
    adapter: adapter(),
    // ... truncated ...
  }
};

export default config;
```

> 3. (Needed if you're using Typescript) Include support for environment variables. The `env` object, containing KV namespaces and other storage objects, is passed to SvelteKit via the platform property along with context and caches, meaning you can access it in hooks and endpoints. For example:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. (Needed if you are using Typescript) Include support for environment variables. The `env` object, containing KV namespaces and other storage objects, is passed to SvelteKit via the platform property along with context and caches, meaning you can access it in hooks and endpoints. For example:
```
Are property, context and caches code elements? If so, they need to be in ``

}

```

4. Access the added KV or Durable objects (or generally any [binding](/pages/platform/functions/bindings/)) in your endpoint with `env`:

```js
export async function post({ request, platform }) {
  const counter = platform.env.COUNTER.idFromName("A");
}
```

{{<Aside type="note">}}

In addition to the Cloudflare adapter, review other adapters you can use in your project:

- [`@sveltejs/adapter-auto`](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@sveltejs/adapter-auto)

>   SvelteKit's default adapter, which automatically chooses the adapter for your current environment (if you use this adapter [no configuration is needed](https://kit.svelte.dev/docs/adapter-auto)), it however introduces a few disadvantages for local development since it has no way of knowing what platform the application is going to be deployed to. To solve such issue in you need to provide a `CF_PAGES` variable to SvelteKit so that the adapter can detect the Pages platform, for example when locally building the application: `CF_PAGES=1 vite build`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  SvelteKit's default adapter  automatically chooses the adapter for your current environment. If you use this adapter, [no configuration is needed](https://kit.svelte.dev/docs/adapter-auto). However, the default adapter introduces a few disadvantages for local development because it has no way of knowing what platform the application is going to be deployed to. 

To solve this issue, provide a `CF_PAGES` variable to SvelteKit so that the adapter can detect the Pages platform. For example, when locally building the application: `CF_PAGES=1 vite build`.
```

Reviewer: The first sentence seemed a bit incomplete so I restructured the paragraph. If I misunderstood or wrote incorrectly, feel free to change!

- [`@sveltejs/adapter-static`](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@sveltejs/adapter-static)
  Only produces client-side static assets (no server-side rendering) and is compatible with Cloudflare Pages.

>   You can see how to set it up in the [official SvelteKit documentation](https://kit.svelte.dev/docs/adapter-static). Keep in mind that if you decide to use this adapter the build directory, instead of `.svelte-kit/cloudflare` becomes `.build` (so configure the Cloudflare Pages application accordingly).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  Review the [official SvelteKit documentation](https://kit.svelte.dev/docs/adapter-static) for instructions on how to set up the adapter. Keep in mind that if you decide to use this adapter, the build directory, instead of `.svelte-kit/cloudflare`, becomes `.build`. You must also configure your Cloudflare Pages application's build directory accordingly.
```

Reviewer: How are they configuring this? Is it by declaring the build directory during set up?

{{</Aside>}}

> **Important:** If you're using any adapter different from auto, remember to commit and push your adapter setting changes to your GitHub repository before attempting the deployment.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
{{<Aside type="warning">}}

If you are using any adapter different from the default SvelteKit adapter, remember to commit and push your adapter setting changes to your GitHub repository before attempting the deployment.

{{</Aside>}}
```

Reviewer: Is "auto" the default adapter?

}

```

4. Access the added KV or Durable objects (or generally any [binding](/pages/platform/functions/bindings/)) in your endpoint with `env`:

```js
export async function post({ request, platform }) {
  const counter = platform.env.COUNTER.idFromName("A");
}
```

{{<Aside type="note">}}

> Besides the Cloudflare adapter there are other adapters that you can use in your project:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In addition to the Cloudflare adapter, review other adapters you can use in your project:
```

- [`@sveltejs/adapter-auto`](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@sveltejs/adapter-auto)

  SvelteKit's default adapter, which automatically chooses the adapter for your current environment (if you use this adapter [no configuration is needed](https://kit.svelte.dev/docs/adapter-auto)), it however introduces a few disadvantages for local development since it has no way of knowing what

>   platform the application is going to be deployed to. To solve such issue in you need to provide a `CF_PAGES` variable to SvelteKit so that the adapter can detect the Pages platform, for example when locally building the application: `CF_PAGES=1 vite build`.

Reviewer: The first sentence here seems incomplete? Can you please recheck? :)

Reviewer: Also, is it for sure "adapter"? You GitHub PR description made me do a double take.

Author: > The first sentence here seems incomplete? Can you please recheck? :)
sorry it's a single sentence I added a newline by mistake 😅

Author: > Also, is it for sure "adapter"? You GitHub PR description made me do a double take.

Yes it's adapter as you can see here: https://kit.svelte.dev/docs/adapters
sorry I get confused because some framework call them adapters and others adaptors (like [Qwik](https://qwik.builder.io/integrations/deployments/cloudflare-pages/#cloudflare-pages-adaptor) for example 🙈) 😅

Let me update the description and the commit message 🙂👍

- [`@sveltejs/adapter-static`](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@sveltejs/adapter-static)
  Only produces client-side static assets (no server-side rendering) and is compatible with Cloudflare Pages.
  You can see how to set it up in the [official SvelteKit documentation](https://kit.svelte.dev/docs/adapter-static). Keep in mind that if you decide to use this adapter the build directory, instead of `.svelte-kit/cloudflare` becomes `.build` (so configure the Cloudflare Pages application accordingly).

{{</Aside>}}

**Important:** If you're using any adapter different from auto, remember to commit and push your adapter setting changes to your GitHub repository before attempting the deployment.

> ## Deploying with Cloudflare Pages

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Deploy with Cloudflare Pages
```

Deploy your site to Pages by logging in to the [Cloudflare dashboard](https://dash.cloudflare.com/) > **Account Home** > **Pages** and selecting **Create a project**.

> You will be asked to authorize access to your GitHub account if you have not already done so. Cloudflare needs this so that it can monitor and deploy your projects from the source. You may narrow access to specific repositories if you prefer; however, you will have to manually update this list [within your GitHub settings](https://github.com/settings/installations) when you want to add more repositories to Cloudflare Pages.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You will be asked to authorize access to your GitHub account if you have not already done so. Cloudflare needs this  authorization to deploy your projects from your GitHub account. You may narrow Cloudflare's access to specific repositories. However, you will have to manually update this list [within your GitHub settings](https://github.com/settings/installations) when you want to add more repositories to Cloudflare Pages.
```

> Select the new GitHub repository that you created and, in the **Set up builds and deployments** section, provide the following information:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Select the new GitHub repository that you created and, in **Set up builds and deployments**, provide the following information:
```

In SvelteKit, functions are written as endpoints. Functions contained in the `/functions` directory at the project's root will not be included in the deployment, which compiles to a single `_worker.js` file.

> So in order to have the functionality equivalent to [Pages Functions onRequests](https://developers.cloudflare.com/pages/platform/functions/api-reference/#onrequests), you just need to write standard request handlers in SvelteKit. For example the following typescript file behaves like an `onRequestGet`:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To have the functionality equivalent to Pages Functions [`onRequests`](https://developers.cloudflare.com/pages/platform/functions/api-reference/#onrequests), you need to write standard request handlers in SvelteKit. For example, the following TypeScript file behaves like an `onRequestGet`:
```

Reviewer: What is the thing that they are making equivalent to `onRequests` in the beginning of the sentence?

Author: Basically in SvelteKit you can't use Pages Functions so you instead write request handlers that basically implement the same functionality as Functions
